{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs20 - \ul\fs32 Jump Classes\ulnone\fs20  -\tab\tab\b0 These are the actual jumps themselves. They can be identified by simply thinking of what you are actually doing while you jump. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab For example a curve is called a curve because you curve when you jump, same goes for a hesitation, long... etc.\par
\par
\b - \ul\fs26 Single Jump Class\ulnone\fs20  -\tab\tab\b0 These are the "base jumps" that make up all other jumps.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Blind\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 This is simply when your initial landing point is out of view from  your take-off, making it difficult to predict where to land since it is \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab blind. Only half way through your jump can you see the landing point, but by then it could be to late to shift your direction.\par
\b\par
- \fs22 Crouch\fs20  -\tab\tab\b0\tab\tab Don't get this confused with the crouch technique as they are very different. This jump class involes \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab crouching first and then jumping out of a crouch. The crouch jump is used when a standing jump is to high, so you shorten the \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab hieght of your jump by crouching.\par
\b\par
- \fs22 Curve\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 Another extremely difficult jump that requires extremely fast joystick movements and late-jumping skills. A curve is used to get \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab around objects. When doing a curve you will jump out and come back in some distance away from your take-off.\par
\par
\i - Flat-Plane Curve -\i0\tab\tab\tab This is the harder version of curving in which your take-off and landing point lie on the same plane. In a flat-plane curve you jump \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab out far enough to get past the object and then immediately curve back in for the landing. \par
\par
\i - Off-Plane Curve -\i0\tab\tab\tab This is an easier version of curving where your landing point is not on the same plane but on a different one usually closer to you. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab This makes your landing point visible, but you still have to curve a little.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Ghost\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\b0\tab A ghost jump is a jump done off of any type of surface that is not walkable on, usually a steep slant. This jump is called a ghost \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab because the point where you jump off of is invisible. It seems impossible to jump off of the steep slant or skinny ledge because all \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab you do is slide off of it. But if timed right you can jump off of the "ghosted" ledge.\par
\b\par
- \fs22 Hesitation\fs20  - \tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 A jump in which you literally hesitate your movement from point a to point b, these jumps are usually short and somewhat below \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab you. A good way to do this hesitation is to rock your joystick back and forth to slow down your movement but still have control \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab over your position.\par
\par
\i - Foward Hesitation -\i0\tab\tab\tab This is a hesitation where your entire movement is directed in-front of you.\par
\par
\i - Reverse Hesitation -\i0\tab\tab\tab This is a hesitation where there is usually something blocking your landing point, forcing you to jump over it and land on the \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab opposite end. To make this kind of jump you would have to hesitate out far enough to be above your landing, then quickly shift \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab your direction from forwards to backwards to land behind the object.\par
\par
\b\fs22 - High Jump -\tab\tab\tab\b0\tab\fs20 Another simple jump where the landing is above you. These are usually paired with the crouch technique to enable you to reach \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab high places.\par
\b\par
- \fs22 Long\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 Defined by doing a full forward walk, a long jump is one of the most difficult jumps to master. It uses the spartans full horizontal \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab jumping ability and then some. To extend a long jump even further one could use a late-jump at the beginning, and to gain even \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab more distance use a save at the end.\par
\par
\b\fs22 - Matrix -\b0\fs20\tab\tab\tab\tab This is simply defined as a jump with a long fall. These can be difficult because the long fall will increase your speed. Sometimes \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab you will fall so fast that saving is not an option because the impact will be so hard that if you try to save you will just bounce off of \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab the landing in the opposite direction.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Partner\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 There is still some dispute as to whether a spartan/elite is considered an "aid". But nonetheless, this is by far the most \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab impressive jump class of all the types. It is incredibly difficult as it requires more than one person to sync their jumps together \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab allowing them to jump off of eachothers heads to clear incredibly long gaps that were never thought possible.\par
\par
\b\i - Combo Partner -\i0\tab\tab\tab\b0 This takes partner jumping to endless possibilities as it can be used to clear an unlimited amount of horizontal distance. This \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab starts with the regular duo but when Jumper A jumps off of Jumper B's head another jumper (Jumper C) has already performed an \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab opposite Duo in which Jumper A will jump off of his head as he falls towards him (for a total of 3 jumps from Jumper A), and then \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab landing on the other side. Imagine the possibilites when combining a regular duo on both sides and an opposite at the end, for a \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab total of 4 jumps from Jumper A. This can be extened even further by having jumpers jump in from different angles instead of from \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab the take-off, Jumper A could simply float on air as other jumpers continusouly land under him, allowing him to go even further.\par
\par
\b\i - Duo Partner -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 This version of partner jumping only requires two jumpers. Jumper A and Jumper B. Jumper A is the one who clears the entire gap \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab by using using Jumper B's head to jump off of.\par
\par
\i - Opposite Duo -\tab\i0\tab\tab\tab This is done when the two jumpers are on opposite sides of teh gap. Jumper A is on the take-off and Jumper B is on the landing. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Jumper B is given the que to walk forward and jump off of the ledge towards Jumper A. Jumper A's goal is then to jump over to \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Jumper B and land on his head \tab as he comes down, once he lands on his head he immidialtely jumps off of it and lands on the \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab other side, where Jumper B originally started.\par
\par
\i - Regular Duo -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab This is done when Jumper A and Jumper B are on the same side of the gap. Jumper B would be given the que to begin walking \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab foward, once he reaches the end of the ledge he would jump. In the meantime Jumper A would run and jump up and over Jumper \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab B, landing on his head at the time Jumper B jumps, jumping off it to reach the other side.\par
\par
\i - Riding Duo -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab This is used not to clear extremely large horizontal distances, but vertical, this time while falling. Jumper B would jump off a ledge \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab and fall straight down and Jumper A would follow close enough to land ontop of his head as they fall in sync. When the time \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab comes, Jumper A jumps off of Jumper B's head to reach an extremely low landing point where a hesitation would never reach.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Slide\fs20  -\b0\tab\tab\tab\tab Perhaps the coolest looking jump of all. The slide jump can be used to achieve even greater distances than a long jump. The slide \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab is a jump in which you jump onto a slant and bunnyhop off of it, propelling you to far away places.\par
\par
\i - Edge Slide -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab This is a slide where instead of sliding on a slant you hit the back of an edge. This make you slide off of it and go further than you \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab normally would.\par
\par
\i - Multi Slide -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab A slide jump involving multiple slides, one after the other. This is much more difficult because it requires perfect bunnyhops on \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab each slide to keep your momentum going.\par
\par
\i - Single Slide -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab A slide jump only involving one slide.\par
\par
- \ul\b\fs26 Combo Jump Class\ulnone\b0\fs20  - \tab\tab These involve combining the single jumps to form new jumps. For example you could have a blind, hesitation, slide matrix jump. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab This would be called a combo jump, but that name is a little long, so this is how you name those types of jumps.The types of \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab these are endless as there are so many different combinations you could have.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Double Combo\fs20  - \b0\tab\tab\tab Two classes and/or styles combined in one jump.\par
\b - \fs22 Triple Combo\fs20  - \b0\tab\tab\tab Three classes and/or styles combined in one jump.\par
\b - \fs22 Super Combo\fs20  -\b0\tab\tab\tab Four classes and/or styles combined in one jump.\par
\b\fs22 - Mega Combo -\b0\fs20  \tab\tab\tab Five classes and/or styles combined in one jump.\par
\b - \fs22 Ultra Combo\fs20  - \tab\b0\tab\tab Six or more classes and/or styles combined in one jump.\par
\par
\b - \ul\fs26 Chain Jump Class\ulnone\fs20  - \b0\tab\tab This jump class is all about consistency. It demonstrates doing multiple jumps one after the other in a certain form without cutting \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab the scene, making one long "chain" of jumps.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Balance Chain\fs20  - \tab\b0\tab\tab A balance chain can never touch the ground, you must always be walking on ledges or railing's or anything that is not considered \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab ground.\par
\par
\i - Sequenced Balance -\b\i0  \tab\b0\tab\tab A sequenced balance, however, is allowed to stop during the jump. This allows you to break between jumps.\par
\par
\i - Stringed Balance -\i0  \tab\tab\tab A stringed balance is one that never stops from holding a full-forward. It is constantly moving and never stopping to take a break. \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab The only time you can let go of a full-forward is when in mid-air (in case you need to hesitate), but once you land you must be \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab holding a full-forward).\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Run Chain\fs20  - \tab\b0\tab\tab\tab A run chain, unlike a balance chain, can touch the ground. This can be used to do multiple jumps over and over, or to simply run \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab about a level and performing different jumps at random without worrying about touching the ground.\par
\par
\i - Sequenced Run -\i0  \tab\tab\tab A sequenced run, however, is allowed to stop during the jump. This allows you to break between jumps.\par
\par
\i - Stringed Run -\i0  \tab\tab\tab\tab A stringed run is one that never stops from holding a full-forward. It is constantly moving and never stopping to take a break. The \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab only time you can let go of a full-forward is when in mid-air (in case you need to hesitate), but once you land you must be holding \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab a full-forward).\par
\par
\par
\b - \ul\fs32 Jump Styles\ulnone\fs20  - \b0\tab\tab These are styles you can add onto an already existing jump to increase the difficulty as well as making it look cooler.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Backward Styles\fs20  - \b0\tab\tab\tab This is incredibly difficult as your entire jump is now done backwards, not only does this decrease your jumping distance but is \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab extremely hard to tell which direction you are going.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 B-Walking Styles\fs20  - \b0\tab\tab\tab Short for balance-walk, this is like an air-rotation but instead done on a railing or ledge or any type of surface other than the \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab ground. It applies the same concept as a balance except you are now spinning while walking. So you are still walking in one \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab direction but spinning at the same time, forcing you to counter-rotate you left joystick in the direction you are headed towards.\par
\par
\i - Full B-Walk Rotation -\i0  \tab\tab\tab This can be any degree of a rotation (within the increments) done in one continous direction.\par
\par
\i - Rewind B-Walk Rotation -\i0  \tab\tab This is done by doing a certain degree of spin one direction and immediately shifting back in the opposite direction in which \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab you came from.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Air-Rotation Styles\fs20  -\b0  \tab\tab Named by its degree of spin (measured in 180 degree incriments: 180, 360, 540, 720...etc), an air-rotation is done while spinning \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab in mid-air.\par
\par
\i - Full Air-Rotation -\i0  \tab\tab\tab This can be any degree of a rotation (within the increments) done in one continous direction.\par
\par
\i - Rewind Air-Rotation -\i0  \tab\tab\tab This is done by doing a certain degree of spin one direction and immediately shifting back in the opposite direction in which you \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab came from.\par
\par
\b\fs22 - Stiffy Style -\b0\fs20  \tab\tab\tab This style refrains the use of a crouch or save on a jump. Most jumpers will naturally crouch to make there landing's easier. It is \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab much more difficult to land a jump without crouching or saving.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Strafe Walking Styles\fs20  -\b0  \tab\tab Like the backwards style, a strafe-walk is done by doing the entire jump sideways. A little bit easier than a backwards style.\par
\par
\par
\b - \ul\fs32 Jump Techniques\ulnone\fs20  - \tab\b0 These are not jumps, they are what you do to help you complete a jump aka jump class. For example you would use a late-jump \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab to help you complete a long jump.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Bunny Hopping\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\b0 This is one of the harder techniques to master. It is used in slide jumping to go even further distances. To do a bunny hop crouch \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab right as you hit the slant you are sliding off. Doing this will increase your speed dramatically. While sliding at this new speed jump \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab off of the slant, this will propel you to far away places.\par
\b\par
- \fs22 Crouching Technique \fs20 -\tab\tab\b0 Probably the most widely used and essential technique in jumping. It is done by crouching before you land a jump to essentially \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab shorten your body allowing you to fall longer which makes your initial jump longer. It can also be used to raise the height of your \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab jump by crouching at the height of your it allowing you to reach higher places\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Late Jumping Technique \fs20 -\tab\tab\b0 This is used at the beginning of your jump to gain a couple extra inches off of the take-off. It is where you jump after you actually \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab leave the edge essentially making your initial jump much shorter.\par
\par
\i - Full Late Jump -\i0\tab\tab\tab This involves using a full sink off of the ledge.\par
\par
\i - Mid Late Jump -\i0\tab\tab\tab This involes using only a half sink off of the ledge.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Ricochet\fs20  -\tab\tab\tab\tab\b0 This involves using ceilings and walls to abruptly change your direction of motion by bouncing off of them.\par
\par
\i - Ceiling Richochet -\i0  \tab\tab\tab This is usually used in a room with a low-ceiling. In rooms like these it can be difficult to gain any speed at all in a forward \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab direction because you will most likely hit your head on the ceiling. Well this techniques takes advantage of this. It is done by \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab bouncing yourself off of the ceiling, propelling yourself towards the ground at high speeds. This new aquired speed can be applied \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab to a slant in that same room allowing you to actually slide jump, whereas before you couldn't even jump into the angle because \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab the ceiling was too low.\par
\par
\i - Late Ricochet -\i0  \tab\tab\tab This applies the same concept as late-jumping in which you would use the saving point of a ledge to your advantage. But this \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab time instead of using it from the ground, you use it from the ceiling. The ricochet involves jumping into the saving point of the \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab ceiling edge which launches you forward a certain distance, not obtainable from a simple jump. Doing this will allow you to \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab complete longer slide jumps in room with low overhead space, whereas if you tried to just jump normally you would simply hit \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab your head on the ceiling and not gain any speed necessary to perfom a slide jump.\par
\par
\i - Wall Ricochet -\i0  \tab\tab\tab This involves using a wall as a suppressor to slow or stop your movement allowing you move in another direction from that point. It \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab can also be used as an object to bounce off of to alter your your direction by hitting it at an angle.\par
\par
\b - \fs22 Saving Technique \fs20 -\tab\tab\b0 This is used at the end of your jump to extend your landing point. It is done by jumping off of the sinking point of your landing by \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab using this extra jump you can hold forward and gain enough distance to land on the actual ledge.\par
\par
\i - Multi Save -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab A single jump off of the sinking point of a landing.\par
\par
\i - Regular Save -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab Two or more jumps off of the sinking point of a landing.\par
\par
\i - V-Save -\i0\tab\tab\tab\tab This involves saving yourself but while you are clearly below the ledge, you essentially jump clear out of mid-air.\par
\par
\par
\par
Knee-Capping - This means when you do a jump, but not making it, your knees hit the top part of the edge. If you knee-cap it that means you are usually able to make the jump.\par
\par
Sink - This is the point, when doing a jump, where there is sort of an invisable ledge that your not able to stand on but run and jump off of. It usually goes out about two steps but if your lucky you are sometimes able to pull off three steps, but it's very difficult.\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 
